# Setup

1. Create a GKE cluster for the testing
2. Enable gcloud API's.

```bash
gcloud services enable cloudbuild.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable containerregistry.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable run.googleapis.com
```

3. Clone a sample code for the testing

```bash
git clone https://github.com/haggman/HelloLoggingNodeJS.git
```

4. Build a container image using Google Cloud Build

```bash
gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/$GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT/hello-logging:1.0
```
DID THIS FIRST FOR DEBUGGING AND LOGGING

5. Clone another repository in place.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/haggman/gcp-debugging

```
6. Create a cloud source repo and add the code to that repo

```bash
gcloud source repos create gcp-debugging
gcloud source repos describe gcp-debugging //note the URL for your repo from here
cd gcp-debugging
git remote -v
git remote remove origin
git remote add origin <url for the repo created above from the describe command>
```

7. Add debugger source context to your code. This adds a source-context file to your code which is what google cloud logging uses to correlate your code to the code being executed on Compute Engine, GKE, App Engine or Cloud Run on GCP.

```bash
gcloud debug source gen-repo-info-file
```

8. Push your code to the repository

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Initial Commit"
git push origin master
```

9. Start debugging your app by running it locally developmentally. After running the command in the following code block, click on the preview app button to preview on port 8080.

```bash
sudo pip3 install -r requirements.txt
python3 main.py
```

10. On line 34 in main.py, add a snapshot point to insert a breakpoint. Try entering some info on the Convert tempreture page of the Web application. On clicking the submit button, the breakpoint will trigger and you'll be able to see the variables on the right hand side of the debugger screen.

> What when something is going wrong with a running application? In order to debug that you can insert logpoints into your running code and test it in real-time with redeploying your code.

# Creating Logpoints in a running application

1. Let's run the application we created earlier using App Engine. The following functionality works with Compute engine, GKE, App Engine and Cloud Run.

```bash
gcloud app create --region=us-central
gcloud app deploy --version=one --quiet
```

2. In the Cloud Debugger window, select Cloud Repository as the code source.

3. Create a logpoint on line 31 in main.py and replace the `var` text completely with "{input} was cast to {fahrenheit}" and set the log level to Warning.

4. Now, on the app web UI, input and submit a couple of entries for tempreture values including a few negative values.

5. On the right hand side in the debugger window, under the logpoints tab, with the logpoint selected in the code window, click on the View Logs button on the right hand side. The logs will start loading in the bottom of the screen.

6. Click on the pop out button for the logs in the logging section on the debugger window. This will open a new tab that will be cloud logging. You can replace the existing query and put in the query `logName: "projects/iocl-project-334307/logs/stderr" AND resource.type: "gae_app" AND textPayload: "LOGPOINT"`.

# Tracing and Erorr Reporting

1. Get outisde the gcp-debugging folder, and clone a sample repo with code that is instrunmented to work with Tracing and Error reporting.

```bash
cd ../
git clone https://github.com/haggman/HelloLoggingNodeJS.git
```

2. Push the code to Google Source Repository

```bash
gcloud source repos create hello-world  // note the URL for the repository that gets created
git remote remove origin
git remote add origin <repository URL>
git commit -a -m "Initial Commit"
git push origin master
```
    > Sometimes error reporting may not show any errors at all, even though they show up in cloud logging. Ensure that the error reporting API is enabled for the project.

3. Deploy the app to a runtime environment such as App Engine

```bash
gcloud app deploy // Note this will overwrite the previous app since app engine works on a one app per project and we are not giving this one its own service name
```

4. Once the app is up and running, navigate to the app. Try adding a url path `/uncaught` and `/error` to invoke errors.

5. On the GCP console, navigate to Error Reporting and enable Auto Reload there. It'll be able to show you the errors. Try clicking on the error on the right hand side, as well as the file name and line nnumber where the error was encountered. This should take you to cloud debugger and the file should open up. In case it doesn't try reloading the page.


# Tracing

1. Tracing is enabled thanks to the library being injected in the nodejs code.

2. To create a trace, open the application URL and navigate to the path `/slow`. This will trigger a slow calculation of the values of Pi.

3. On the GCP console, navigate to the Cloud Trace and look at the trace list. Click on a trace for the `/slow` path that took a lot of time and analyze the trace. 